the lesser of two evils is still evil
this is a catchphrase that I use from
time to time in conversations about
veganism animal rights with people in
real life
face to face very often as vegans were
presented with a contrast between two
scenarios both of which we would
consider evil for example
well what if we simply make changes to
the way pigs are raised so that they are
not castrated in such a horrendous way
so their teeth are not pulled out so
that they live in pens where they get to
roll in the mud instead of being
directly on concrete and some vegans
feel it's tremendously important to
pretend as Gary Fran ciona does that
abolitionism is the only way to approach
the issue and that if we admit degrees
of difference if we admit that one is in
any way more or less evil than the other
then somehow we have already lost the
battle what this leads to
psychologically and politically is a
tremendously fragile somewhat hysterical
and shrill approach to animal rights and
veganism and it makes it completely
impossible to cooperate with and
collaborate with people who may be
really like-minded have similar
objectives and values but who may be for
example hunters who may be indigenous
people the Korean agoa here in Canada
were often very proud of continuing
their hunting traditions but who may
share concerns about preserving forest
habitats or about opposing
the great excesses of factory farming
let's say vivisection on a university
campus like my university campus here or
university campus I was at before in
Saskatchewan that really had a
significant number of indigenous people
of First Nations people Korean a
giveaway included uh so some vegans
today in 2016 really valorize really
glamorized really propound the notion
that we should be inflexible we should
stick to an abolitionist definition of
morale
and not admit of differences of degree
of saying this is worse than that this
is evil but that is even more evil and I
do not see any tactical advantage in
this and I've already alluded to the
tactical disadvantages instead what I'm
suggesting to you is that it's really
useful to be able to say the difference
between evil and another form of evil is
something I can recognize but if we have
to choose then the lesser of two evils
is still evil now in a video I posted
just within the last few days you'll see
that I discussed the rise and fall of
basically the wilderness itself wildness
as a paradigm within animal rights
vegetarian activism vegan activism and
basically it'sit's really peculiar to me
that from my perspective the opposition
to domestication itself the opposition
to the domestication of animals in
principle has disappeared from animal
rights and vegan activism instead now
guys like Gary France IANA himself he
shows off him cuddling his pet dog there
was a time when again this is like
really 15 years ago the insistence was
instead on you know respecting animals
meaning respecting their habitat
respecting their independence respecting
that a shark in nature will kill any
human beings a tiger an elephant that we
should be making room and planning the
future of our society so that animals
can live in wilderness but in this sense
the baseline for what is a dog a dog is
not man's best friend this paradigm was
also insisting that we regard a dog
naturally as a wild hunter as a predator
and indeed I mean wild dogs they'll
attack you and try to kill you and eat
you still today wild dogs in in Africa
and few parts of Africa you can you can
still get torn apart by wild dogs I have
been attacked by dogs in Southeast Asia
but none of them none of them were wild
maybe they were feral but not quite a
while anyway but this this really was
refusing
to take the view of animals as a toy as
a plaything as something to be
domesticated and coddled and this really
has disappeared today apart from the
greater emphasis on consumerism health
diet weight-loss lifestyle seemingly
unchallenged the cuddly lamb the cuddly
cute pig that's become of central
symbolic significance to veganism today
and you know pigs in the wild they're
actually pretty terrifying if you run
into an adult boar in the jungle you can
indeed be attacked by a wild pig even if
you're not attacked by one you just
encounter one they can be hundreds and
hundreds of pounds big muscular defiant
creatures even I mean you know actually
very few people alive have seen wild
chickens chickens really living in the
jungle not reliant on human beings to
feed them and what their behavior is
like and how they act
you know the symbol of french
nationalism until very recently they
still have statues up and flies above
this was the proud chicken you know this
notion of a of a male chicken as a
defiant violence you know proud animal
oh this has disappeared from awareness
because we now think of an we think of
chickens on the one hand of course in
factory farms but veganism is counter
posing to that these days they say oh
well a chicken can also be a loving pet
is that the point is that really how we
should challenge the paradigm in factory
farms or should we think about chickens
pigs dogs etc also in the same terms
that we think of lions and tigers as
animals where their wild form is what we
ought to respect now the old approach of
15 years ago also had very serious
disadvantages among the advantages you
can say was that it sincerely cared
about indigenous people it sincerely
cared about First Nations people at the
Korean Ajab way native people in Papua
New Guinea indigenous people of
Australia that was really sincere
today's veganism seems to have no
interest what's what
for which again if you've been familiar
with animal rights activism that's a
change it's a subtle strange change in
the underpinnings of what's been going
on politically here I care about four
stations if you look through this
YouTube channel I used to study crayons
your boys language something I
personally have cared about for many
many years but it's almost treated today
as a totally separate issue from Venus
men Ward's the disadvantaged which I
think guys like Fran Sione would
complain about I think most vegans they
would be shocked by was that that
old-fashioned more primitive istic more
anarchistic form of animal rights and
and vegetarian activism because back
then the word vegan wasn't really
popular yet people just talk about
vegetarianism as part of the movement
um the disadvantage is that it's soft on
hunting yeah it's it would be totally
opposed to factory farming you know
angrily militantly against this brutal
factory like exploitation of animals but
they were willing to admit of a
difference there was a difference
between a pig that lives its whole life
wild and free in the forest with all of
the joys and miseries of being a real
authentic wild animal a pig that one day
suddenly encounters a human being with a
crossbow the human being kills that pig
and eats it that from the old-fashioned
perspective really was qualitatively
different from factory farming the sort
of disaggregated cycle of people buying
meat as a finished product in a shop and
not feeling any responsibility for
killing the animal it's a much different
set of psychological priorities as well
as a different approach to political
provocation or propaganda shall we say
and today this has almost been inverted
I think vegans today regard hunters as
the most despicable form of meat-eaters
they regard hunters as wealthy bored
people who are more cruel who are more
perverse who are more evil than someone
who just
buys pork as a finished product in the
shop um and now along with this comes as
already alluded to the refusal to admit
of degrees of difference
people who feel very strongly that you
cannot sacrifice your moral high-ground
your moral high ground and claiming that
all killing of animals is equally evil
that all sources of meat are equally
evil that literally the inuit also known
as the Eskimos are Native people you
know that when the inuit go and kill a
seal or kill a whale sitting in a small
wooden boat with a harpoon and yes today
it's a steel harpoon yesterday it may be
an electrical harpoon you know shot out
of a cannon or what-have-you but
nevertheless that that is still that is
morally equivalent to or morally worse
than factory farming so again these
changes they're profound
they're subtle they took place over time
and with all of them I can see different
advantages and disadvantages but
paradoxically enough it was back in the
old days back when a narco primitivism
was more of a big deal back when there
was more of this positive connection to
indigenous peoples their political
struggles which again is kind of soft on
hunting but back when ecology was much
more linked to those those political
movements it was at that time back then
that was when vegetarians new colors
seemed to really care about vivisection
I don't know why a vivisection is also
kind of really dropped down in priority
um
compared to lifestyle activism lose
weight look great wear a bikini ride a
bicycle but also compared to the few
bits and pieces that you can point to
today and really say this is political
veganism or this is political animal or
it's activism so look as always folks
I'm not trying to sell you a diet book
I'm not trying to sell you handmade
jewelry I'm not even trying to sell you
an ideology this channel is not
monetized there are no advertisements
and I'm not telling you what to think
but I am tell
you this is still something really worth
thinking about